To configure our application to talk to a database, there's actually three
steps that we need to do. We need to start by opening up our pom.xml, and
let's go down to where we last edited this,
which was below JSTL and give ourselves a little bit of space in
between that previous dependency and the next one,
and we're going to put two dependencies inside of here.
We're going to put the spring‑boot‑starter‑data‑dpa dependency.
We're actually not doing anything with jpa yet, and it's
not really the focus of this course,
but there are some transaction libraries that are part of that
artifact that we need inside of our code.
And then we're going to add the MySQL mysql‑connector‑java dependency.
Those both use dependency management from Maven,
and so we don't have to specify a specific version in there.
And when we hit Save, they will automatically download those and
add them to the class path of your application. The next thing we
need to do is to find a data source,
and we do that by going to application.properties,
and right now ours is blank.
We're going to go ahead and add in four lines.
I have already copied these,
and I'm just going to paste them in so you don't have to
watch me type them and make typing errors.
But you can see the four lines we have here are
spring.datasource.url. and that's tied to localhost:3306. If
you'll remember when we created the Docker compose file,
we exposed the port 3306 to 3306, and we named our database conference_security.
We add a username of root and a password of pass, and our JDBC
driver for MySQL is just com.mysql.jdbc.Driver.
Let's save this.
And if you have any red errors here,
you need to figure those out before you proceed.
If there are any things red,
it means you haven't got something configured quite right.
Next,
we want to open up our ConferenceSecurityConfig, and at the top of this file,
I'm going to go ahead and inject a resource. So I'm going to
type in @Autowired, and I'm going to make this private and say
DataSource dataSource, and save that.
And you can see how it's grayed. That says that there is one
configured. And since that's configured,
it's pulling that from our application.properties.
So that's how I know that those two are actually configured correctly.
Then I'm going to scroll down to our Configure method that we created
before, and we had all this inMemoryAuthentication.
I'm actually going to replace that with .jdbcAuthentication, and
we're going to pass in a dataSource, and it's that dataSource
that we just injected into our code.
Believe it or not,
that is everything that you need to do as far as your application
configuration is concerned to wire it up to use JDBC to read from your
database and authenticate and authorize against. Now, for our end, since
it's the first time we've done this,
we do have to add a couple of tables into our database and
insert a record in there for us to go against.
So I'm going to open up my MySQL Workbench and run a couple of statements on there to put some data in there.